README.md, before:

# NEAR JavaScript SDK

## Quick Start

Use [`create-near-app`](https://github.com/near/create-near-app) to quickly get started writing smart contracts in JavaScript on NEAR.

    npx create-near-app

This will scaffold a basic template for you 😎

Learn more in our [Quick Start guide](https://docs.near.org/develop/quickstart-guide).

## Running Examples

There are a couple of contract examples in the project:

- [Clean contract state](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/clean-state.js)
- [Counter using low level API](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/counter-lowlevel.js)
- [Counter in JavaScript](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/counter.js)
- [Counter in TypeScript](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/counter.ts)
- [Doing cross contract call](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/cross-contract-call.js)
- [Fungible token](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/fungible-token.js)
- [Lockable fungible token](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/fungible-token-lockable.js)
- [Non fungible token](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/non-fungible-token.js)
- [Non fungible token receiver contract](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/non-fungible-token-receiver.js)
- [Status message board](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/status-message.js)
- [Status message board with unique messages](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/status-message-collections.js)

To build all examples, run `yarn build` in `examples/`. To test all examples, run `yarn test`. You can also build and test one specific example with `yarn build:<example-name>` and `yarn test:<example-name>`, see `examples/package.json`.

To deploy and call a contract on a NEAR node, use near-cli's `near deploy` and `near call`.

## Test

We recommend to use near-workspaces to write tests for your smart contracts. See any of the examples for how tests are setup and written.

## Error Handling in NEAR-SDK-JS

If you want to indicate an error happened and fail the transaction, just throw an error object in JavaScript. The compiled JavaScript contract includes error handling capability. It will catch throwed errors and automatically invoke `panic_utf8` with `"{error.message}\n:{error.stack}"`. As a result, transaction will fail with `"Smart contract panicked: {error.message}\n{error.stack}"` error message. You can also use an error utilities library to organize your errors, such as verror.

When your JS code or library throws an error, uncaught, the transaction will also fail with GuestPanic error, with the error message and stacktrace.

When call host function with inappropriate type, means incorrect number of arguments or arg is not expected type:

- if arguments less than params, remaining argument are set as 'undefined'
- if arguments more than params, remaining argument are ignored
- if argument is different than the required type, it'll be coerced to required type
- if argument is different than the required type but cannot be coerced, will throw runtime type error, also with message and stacktrace

## NEAR-SDK-JS API Reference

All NEAR blockchain provided functionality (host functions) are defined in `src/api.ts` and exported as `near`. You can use them by:

```js
import { near } from "near-sdk-js";

// near.<api doucmented below>. e.g.:
let signer = near.signerAccountId();
```

To use nightly host functions, such as `altBn128G1Sum`, your contract need to be built with nightly enabled. Use:

```
export NEAR_NIGHTLY=1
yarn build
```

### About Type

NEAR-SDK-JS is written in TypeScript, so every API function has a type specified by signature that looks familiar to JavaScript/TypeScript Developers. Two types in the signature need a special attention:

- Most of the API take `bigint` instead of Number as type. This because JavaScript Number cannot hold 64 bit and 128 bit integer without losing precision.
- `Bytes` in both arguments and return represent a byte buffer, internally it's a JavaScript String Object. Any binary data `0x00-0xff` is stored as the char '\x00-\xff'. This is because QuickJS doesn't have Uint8Array in C API.
  - To ensure correctness, every `Bytes` argument need to be pass in with the `bytes()` function to runtime type check it's indeed a `Bytes`.
  - If `Bytes` is too long that `bytes()` can cause gas limit problem, such as in factory contract, represents the content of contract to be deployed. In this case you can precheck and guarantee the correctness of the content and use without `bytes()`.

### Context API

```
function currentAccountId(): string;
function signerAccountId(): string;
function signerAccountPk(): Bytes;
function predecessorAccountId(): string;
function input(): Bytes;
function blockIndex(): bigint;
function blockHeight(): bigint;
function blockTimestamp(): bigint;
function epochHeight(): bigint;
function storageUsage(): bigint
```

### Economics API

```
function accountBalance(): bigint;
function accountLockedBalance(): bigint;
function attachedDeposit(): bigint;
function prepaidGas(): bigint;
function usedGas(): bigint;
```

### Math API

```
function randomSeed(): Bytes;
function sha256(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function keccak256(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function keccak512(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function ripemd160(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function ecrecover(hash: Bytes, sign: Bytes, v: bigint, malleability_flag: bigint): Bytes | null;
```

### Miscellaneous API

```
function valueReturn(value: Bytes);
function panic(msg?: string);
function panicUtf8(msg: Bytes);
function log(msg: string);
function logUtf8(msg: Bytes);
function logUtf16(msg: Bytes);
```

### Promises API

```
function promiseCreate(account_id: string, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint): bigint;
function promiseThen(promise_index: bigint, account_id: string, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint): bigint;
function promiseAnd(...promise_idx: bigint): bigint;
function promiseBatchCreate(account_id: string): bigint;
function promiseBatchThen(promise_index: bigint, account_id: string): bigint;
```

### Promise API actions

```
function promiseBatchActionCreateAccount(promise_index: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionDeployContract(promise_index: bigint, code: Bytes);
function promiseBatchActionFunctionCall(promise_index: bigint, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionFunctionCallWeight(promise_index: bigint, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint, weight: bigint);

function promiseBatchActionTransfer(promise_index: bigint, amount: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionStake(promise_index: bigint, amount: bigint, public_key: Bytes);
function promiseBatchActionAddKeyWithFullAccess(promise_index: bigint, public_key: Bytes, nonce: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionAddKeyWithFunctionCall(promise_index: bigint, public_key: Bytes, nonce: bigint, allowance: bigint, receiver_id: string, method_names: string);
function promiseBatchActionDeleteKey(promise_index: bigint, public_key: Bytes);
function promiseBatchActionDeleteAccount(promise_index: bigint, beneficiary_id: string);
```

### Promise API results

```
function promiseResultsCount(): bigint;
function promiseResult(result_idx: bigint, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function promiseReturn(promise_idx: bigint);
```

### Storage API

```
function storageWrite(key: Bytes, value: Bytes, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function storageRead(key: Bytes, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function storageRemove(key: Bytes, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function storageHasKey(key: Bytes): bigint;
```

### Validator API

```
function validatorStake(account_id: string): bigint;
function validatorTotalStake(): bigint;
```

### Alt BN128

```
function altBn128G1Multiexp(value: Bytes, register_id: bigint);
function altBn128G1Sum(value: Bytes, register_id: bigint);
function altBn128PairingCheck(value: Bytes): bigint;
```

### NearBindgen and other decorators

You can write a simple smart contract by only using low-level APIs, such as `near.input()`, `near.storageRead()`, etc. In this case, the API of your contract will consist of all the exported JS functions. You can find an example of such a contract [here](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/blob/develop/examples/src/counter-lowlevel.js).

But if you want to build a more complex contracts with ease, you can use decorators from this SDK that will handle serialization, deserialization, and other boilerplate operations for you.

In order to do that, your contract must be a class decorated with `@NearBindgen({})`. Each method in this class with `@call({})`, `@view({})`, and `@initialize({})` decorators will become functions of your smart contract. `call` functions can change state, and `view` functions can only read it.

Your class must have a `constructor()`. You will not be able to call it, which is why it should not accept any parameters. You must declare all the parameters that you are planning to use in the constructor and set default values.

The simplest example of the contract that follows all these rules can be found [here](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/blob/develop/examples/src/status-message.js)

`NearBindgen` decorator can accept `requireInit parameter`.

```JS
@NearBindgen({ requireInit: true })
class YourContract {
    ...
}
```

It is `false` by default, but if you will set it to `true`, it will prevent all the `call` functions from being executed before you initialize the state of the contract.

In order to initialize the contract, you need to add functions flagged with `@initialize({})` decorator.

`@call({})` decorator can accept two parameters: `privateFunction` and `payableFunction`. They are both `false` by default.

`privateFunction: true` can restrict access to this function to the contract itself.

`payableFunction: true` will allow the function to accept payments (deposit). Without this flag, it will panic if any deposit was provided.

### Collections

A few useful on-chain persistent collections are provided. All keys, values and elements are of type `Bytes`.

#### Vector

Vector is an iterable implementation of vector that stores its content on the trie. Usage:

```js
import {Vector} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.v = new Vector('my_prefix_')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.v = Object.assign(new Vector, this.v)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.v.push('abc')
    this.v.push('def')
    this.v.push('ghi')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.v.extend(['xyz', '123'])

    // get
    let first = this.v.get(0)

    // remove, move the last element to the given index
    this.v.swapRemove(0)

    // replace
    this.v.replace(1, 'jkl')

    // remove the last
    this.v.pop()

    // len, isEmpty
    let len = this.v.length
    let isEmpty = this.v.isEmpty()

    // iterate
    for (let element of this.v) {
        near.log(element)
    }

    // toArray, convert to JavaScript Array
    let a = this.v.toArray()

    // clear
    ths.v.clear()
}
```

#### LookupMap

LookupMap is an non-iterable implementation of a map that stores its content directly on the trie. It's like a big hash map, but on trie. Usage:

```js
import {LookupMap} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.m = new LookupMap('prefix_a')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.m = Object.assign(new LookupMap, this.m)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.m.set('abc', 'aaa')
    this.m.set('def', 'bbb')
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ccc')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.m.extend([['xyz', '123'], ['key2', 'value2']])

    // check exist
    let exist = this.m.containsKey('abc')

    // get
    let value = this.m.get('abc')

    // remove
    this.m.remove('def')

    // replace
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ddd')
}
```

#### LookupSet

LookupSet is an non-iterable implementation of a set that stores its content directly on the trie. It's like LookupMap, but it only stores whether the value presents. Usage:

```js
import {LookupSet} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.s = new LookupSet('prefix_b')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.s = Object.assign(new LookupSet, this.s)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.s.set('abc')
    this.s.set('def')
    this.s.set('ghi')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.s.extend(['xyz', '123'])

    // check exist
    let exist = this.s.contains('abc')

    // remove
    this.s.remove('def')
}
```

#### UnorderedMap

UnorderedMap is an iterable implementation of a map that stores its content directly on the trie. Usage:

```js
import {UnorderedMap} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.m = new UnorderedMap('prefix_c')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.m.keys = Object.assign(new Vector, this.m.keys)
    this.m.values = Object.assign(new Vector, this.m.values)
    this.m = Object.assign(new UnorderedMap, this.m)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.m.set('abc', 'aaa')
    this.m.set('def', 'bbb')
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ccc')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.m.extend([['xyz', '123'], ['key2', 'value2']])

    // get
    let value = this.m.get('abc')

    // remove
    this.m.remove('def')

    // replace
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ddd')

    // len, isEmpty
    let len = this.m.length
    let isEmpty = this.m.isEmpty()

    // iterate
    for (let [k, v] of this.m) {
        near.log(k+v)
    }

    // toArray, convert to JavaScript Array
    let a = this.m.toArray()

    // clear
    this.m.clear()
}
```

#### UnorderedSet

UnorderedSet is an iterable implementation of a set that stores its content directly on the trie. It's like UnorderedMap but it only stores whether the value presents. Usage:

```js
import {UnorderedSet} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.s = new UnorderedSet('prefix_d')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.s.elements = Object.assign(new Vector, this.s.elements)
    this.s = Object.assign(new UnorderedSet, this.s)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.s.set('abc')
    this.s.set('def')
    this.s.set('ghi')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.s.extend(['xyz', '123'])

    // check exist
    let exist = this.s.contains('abc')

    // remove
    this.s.remove('def')

    // len, isEmpty
    let len = this.s.length
    let isEmpty = this.s.isEmpty()

    // iterate
    for (let e of this.s) {
        near.log(e)
    }

    // toArray, convert to JavaScript Array
    let a = this.s.toArray()

    // clear
    this.s.clear()
}
```

### Highlevel Promise APIs

Within a contract class that decorated by `@Nearbindgen`, you can work a high level JavaScript class, called `NearPromise`. It's equivalently expressive as promise batch APIs but much shorter to write and can be chained like a JavaScript Promise.

In a `@call` method, you can return either a JavaScript value or a `NearPromise` object. In the later case, `@NearBindgen` will automatically `promiseReturn` it for you.

Usage:

```js
// create new promise
import { NearPromise, near, includeBytes } from "near-sdk-js";
import { PublicKey } from "near-sdk-js/lib/types";

let promise = NearPromise.new("account-to-run-promise");

// possible promise actions, choose and chain what you need:
promise
  .createAccount()
  .transfer(1_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000n)
  .addFullAccessKey(new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()))
  .addAccessKey(
    new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()),
    250000000000000000000000n, // allowance
    "receiver_account_id",
    "allowed_function_names"
  )
  .stake(100000000000000000000000000000n, new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()))
  .deployContract(includeBytes("path/to/contract.wasm"))
  .functionCall(
    "callee_contract_account_id",
    inputArgs,
    0, // amount
    2 * Math.pow(10, 13) // gas
  )
  .functionCallWeight(
    "callee_contract_account_id",
    inputArgs,
    0, // amount
    2 * Math.pow(10, 13), // gas
    1 // weight
  )
  .deleteKey(new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()))
  .deleteAccount("beneficial_account_id");

return promise;
```

In the case of deploy contract, `includeBytes` is a helpful build-time util. You can include the content of a wasm contract, by using `includeBytes('path/to/contract.wasm')`.

In the case of `addFullAccessKey`, `addAccessKey` and `stake`, it takes a `PublicKey` object, you can find more details about it in the Types sections below.

Besides above APIs to build something on top of an API, you can also chain promises with `.then` and `.and`, they're equivalent to promiseThen, promiseAnd:

```js
// assume promise, promise2 and promise3 are create with above APIs, with several actions added like above.
promise.and(promise2).then(promise3); // promiseAnd of [promise_id, promise2_id], then promiseThen(promise_and_id, promise3_id)

return promise;
```

### Types

NEAR-SDK-JS also includes type defintions that are equivalent to that in Rust SDK / nearcore. You can browse them in near-sdk-js/src/types. Most of them are just type alias to Bytes and bigint.

#### Public Key

Public Key is representing a NEAR account's public key in a JavaScript class. You can either initiate a Public Key from binary data, or from a human readable string.

The binary data is in the same format as nearcore, but encoded in bytes. That's one byte to represent the curve type of the public key, either ed25519 (`\x00`), or secp256k1 ('\x01'), follows by the curve-specific public key data in bytes. Examples:

```js
new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk());
new PublicKey(
  "\x00\xeb\x7f\x5f\x11\xd1\x08\x1f\xe0\xd2\x24\xc5\x67\x36\x21\xad\xcb\x97\xd5\x13\xff\xa8\x5e\x55\xbc\x2b\x74\x4f\x0d\xb1\xe9\xf8\x1f"
);
new PublicKey(
  "\x01\xf2\x56\xc6\xe6\xc8\x0b\x21\x3f\x2a\xa0\xb0\x17\x44\x23\x5d\x51\x5c\x59\x44\x35\xbe\x65\x1b\x15\x88\x3a\x10\xdd\x47\x2f\xa6\x46\xce\x62\xea\xf3\x67\x0d\xc5\xcb\x91\x00\xa0\xca\x2a\x55\xb2\xc1\x47\xc1\xe9\xa3\x8c\xe4\x28\x87\x8e\x7d\x46\xe1\xfb\x71\x4a\x99"
);
```

The human readable form is `ed25519:` or `secp256k1:` following base58-encoded public key. And initialize the Public Key with `PublicKey.fromString`:

```js
PublicKey.fromString('ed25519:DXkVZkHd7WUUejCK7i74uAoZWy1w9AZqshhTHxhmqHuB`)
PublicKey.fromString('secp256k1:5r22SrjrDvgY3wdQsnjgxkeAbU1VcM71FYvALEQWihjM3Xk4Be1CpETTqFccChQr4iJwDroSDVmgaWZv2AcXvYeL`)
```

Once a PublicKey object is created, it can be used in high level promise APIs that takes a public key, such as `addFullAccessKey`, `addAccessKey` and `stake`.

Commit message:

Added a warning until we can get the runtime audited

README.md, after:

# NEAR JavaScript SDK

> **Warning**
> This is alpha software. The JavaScript runtime has not been audited yet so for now use the [Rust SDK](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-rs) if your contract stores anything of significant value.

## Quick Start

Use [`create-near-app`](https://github.com/near/create-near-app) to quickly get started writing smart contracts in JavaScript on NEAR.

    npx create-near-app

This will scaffold a basic template for you 😎

Learn more in our [Quick Start guide](https://docs.near.org/develop/quickstart-guide).

## Running Examples

There are a couple of contract examples in the project:

- [Clean contract state](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/clean-state.js)
- [Counter using low level API](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/counter-lowlevel.js)
- [Counter in JavaScript](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/counter.js)
- [Counter in TypeScript](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/counter.ts)
- [Doing cross contract call](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/cross-contract-call.js)
- [Fungible token](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/fungible-token.js)
- [Lockable fungible token](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/fungible-token-lockable.js)
- [Non fungible token](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/non-fungible-token.js)
- [Non fungible token receiver contract](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/non-fungible-token-receiver.js)
- [Status message board](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/status-message.js)
- [Status message board with unique messages](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/tree/develop/examples/src/status-message-collections.js)

To build all examples, run `yarn build` in `examples/`. To test all examples, run `yarn test`. You can also build and test one specific example with `yarn build:<example-name>` and `yarn test:<example-name>`, see `examples/package.json`.

To deploy and call a contract on a NEAR node, use near-cli's `near deploy` and `near call`.

## Test

We recommend to use near-workspaces to write tests for your smart contracts. See any of the examples for how tests are setup and written.

## Error Handling in NEAR-SDK-JS

If you want to indicate an error happened and fail the transaction, just throw an error object in JavaScript. The compiled JavaScript contract includes error handling capability. It will catch throwed errors and automatically invoke `panic_utf8` with `"{error.message}\n:{error.stack}"`. As a result, transaction will fail with `"Smart contract panicked: {error.message}\n{error.stack}"` error message. You can also use an error utilities library to organize your errors, such as verror.

When your JS code or library throws an error, uncaught, the transaction will also fail with GuestPanic error, with the error message and stacktrace.

When call host function with inappropriate type, means incorrect number of arguments or arg is not expected type:

- if arguments less than params, remaining argument are set as 'undefined'
- if arguments more than params, remaining argument are ignored
- if argument is different than the required type, it'll be coerced to required type
- if argument is different than the required type but cannot be coerced, will throw runtime type error, also with message and stacktrace

## NEAR-SDK-JS API Reference

All NEAR blockchain provided functionality (host functions) are defined in `src/api.ts` and exported as `near`. You can use them by:

```js
import { near } from "near-sdk-js";

// near.<api doucmented below>. e.g.:
let signer = near.signerAccountId();
```

To use nightly host functions, such as `altBn128G1Sum`, your contract need to be built with nightly enabled. Use:

```
export NEAR_NIGHTLY=1
yarn build
```

### About Type

NEAR-SDK-JS is written in TypeScript, so every API function has a type specified by signature that looks familiar to JavaScript/TypeScript Developers. Two types in the signature need a special attention:

- Most of the API take `bigint` instead of Number as type. This because JavaScript Number cannot hold 64 bit and 128 bit integer without losing precision.
- `Bytes` in both arguments and return represent a byte buffer, internally it's a JavaScript String Object. Any binary data `0x00-0xff` is stored as the char '\x00-\xff'. This is because QuickJS doesn't have Uint8Array in C API.
  - To ensure correctness, every `Bytes` argument need to be pass in with the `bytes()` function to runtime type check it's indeed a `Bytes`.
  - If `Bytes` is too long that `bytes()` can cause gas limit problem, such as in factory contract, represents the content of contract to be deployed. In this case you can precheck and guarantee the correctness of the content and use without `bytes()`.

### Context API

```
function currentAccountId(): string;
function signerAccountId(): string;
function signerAccountPk(): Bytes;
function predecessorAccountId(): string;
function input(): Bytes;
function blockIndex(): bigint;
function blockHeight(): bigint;
function blockTimestamp(): bigint;
function epochHeight(): bigint;
function storageUsage(): bigint
```

### Economics API

```
function accountBalance(): bigint;
function accountLockedBalance(): bigint;
function attachedDeposit(): bigint;
function prepaidGas(): bigint;
function usedGas(): bigint;
```

### Math API

```
function randomSeed(): Bytes;
function sha256(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function keccak256(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function keccak512(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function ripemd160(value: Bytes): Bytes;
function ecrecover(hash: Bytes, sign: Bytes, v: bigint, malleability_flag: bigint): Bytes | null;
```

### Miscellaneous API

```
function valueReturn(value: Bytes);
function panic(msg?: string);
function panicUtf8(msg: Bytes);
function log(msg: string);
function logUtf8(msg: Bytes);
function logUtf16(msg: Bytes);
```

### Promises API

```
function promiseCreate(account_id: string, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint): bigint;
function promiseThen(promise_index: bigint, account_id: string, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint): bigint;
function promiseAnd(...promise_idx: bigint): bigint;
function promiseBatchCreate(account_id: string): bigint;
function promiseBatchThen(promise_index: bigint, account_id: string): bigint;
```

### Promise API actions

```
function promiseBatchActionCreateAccount(promise_index: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionDeployContract(promise_index: bigint, code: Bytes);
function promiseBatchActionFunctionCall(promise_index: bigint, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionFunctionCallWeight(promise_index: bigint, method_name: string, arguments: Bytes, amount: bigint, gas: bigint, weight: bigint);

function promiseBatchActionTransfer(promise_index: bigint, amount: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionStake(promise_index: bigint, amount: bigint, public_key: Bytes);
function promiseBatchActionAddKeyWithFullAccess(promise_index: bigint, public_key: Bytes, nonce: bigint);
function promiseBatchActionAddKeyWithFunctionCall(promise_index: bigint, public_key: Bytes, nonce: bigint, allowance: bigint, receiver_id: string, method_names: string);
function promiseBatchActionDeleteKey(promise_index: bigint, public_key: Bytes);
function promiseBatchActionDeleteAccount(promise_index: bigint, beneficiary_id: string);
```

### Promise API results

```
function promiseResultsCount(): bigint;
function promiseResult(result_idx: bigint, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function promiseReturn(promise_idx: bigint);
```

### Storage API

```
function storageWrite(key: Bytes, value: Bytes, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function storageRead(key: Bytes, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function storageRemove(key: Bytes, register_id: bigint): bigint;
function storageHasKey(key: Bytes): bigint;
```

### Validator API

```
function validatorStake(account_id: string): bigint;
function validatorTotalStake(): bigint;
```

### Alt BN128

```
function altBn128G1Multiexp(value: Bytes, register_id: bigint);
function altBn128G1Sum(value: Bytes, register_id: bigint);
function altBn128PairingCheck(value: Bytes): bigint;
```

### NearBindgen and other decorators

You can write a simple smart contract by only using low-level APIs, such as `near.input()`, `near.storageRead()`, etc. In this case, the API of your contract will consist of all the exported JS functions. You can find an example of such a contract [here](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/blob/develop/examples/src/counter-lowlevel.js).

But if you want to build a more complex contracts with ease, you can use decorators from this SDK that will handle serialization, deserialization, and other boilerplate operations for you.

In order to do that, your contract must be a class decorated with `@NearBindgen({})`. Each method in this class with `@call({})`, `@view({})`, and `@initialize({})` decorators will become functions of your smart contract. `call` functions can change state, and `view` functions can only read it.

Your class must have a `constructor()`. You will not be able to call it, which is why it should not accept any parameters. You must declare all the parameters that you are planning to use in the constructor and set default values.

The simplest example of the contract that follows all these rules can be found [here](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-js/blob/develop/examples/src/status-message.js)

`NearBindgen` decorator can accept `requireInit parameter`.

```JS
@NearBindgen({ requireInit: true })
class YourContract {
    ...
}
```

It is `false` by default, but if you will set it to `true`, it will prevent all the `call` functions from being executed before you initialize the state of the contract.

In order to initialize the contract, you need to add functions flagged with `@initialize({})` decorator.

`@call({})` decorator can accept two parameters: `privateFunction` and `payableFunction`. They are both `false` by default.

`privateFunction: true` can restrict access to this function to the contract itself.

`payableFunction: true` will allow the function to accept payments (deposit). Without this flag, it will panic if any deposit was provided.

### Collections

A few useful on-chain persistent collections are provided. All keys, values and elements are of type `Bytes`.

#### Vector

Vector is an iterable implementation of vector that stores its content on the trie. Usage:

```js
import {Vector} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.v = new Vector('my_prefix_')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.v = Object.assign(new Vector, this.v)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.v.push('abc')
    this.v.push('def')
    this.v.push('ghi')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.v.extend(['xyz', '123'])

    // get
    let first = this.v.get(0)

    // remove, move the last element to the given index
    this.v.swapRemove(0)

    // replace
    this.v.replace(1, 'jkl')

    // remove the last
    this.v.pop()

    // len, isEmpty
    let len = this.v.length
    let isEmpty = this.v.isEmpty()

    // iterate
    for (let element of this.v) {
        near.log(element)
    }

    // toArray, convert to JavaScript Array
    let a = this.v.toArray()

    // clear
    ths.v.clear()
}
```

#### LookupMap

LookupMap is an non-iterable implementation of a map that stores its content directly on the trie. It's like a big hash map, but on trie. Usage:

```js
import {LookupMap} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.m = new LookupMap('prefix_a')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.m = Object.assign(new LookupMap, this.m)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.m.set('abc', 'aaa')
    this.m.set('def', 'bbb')
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ccc')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.m.extend([['xyz', '123'], ['key2', 'value2']])

    // check exist
    let exist = this.m.containsKey('abc')

    // get
    let value = this.m.get('abc')

    // remove
    this.m.remove('def')

    // replace
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ddd')
}
```

#### LookupSet

LookupSet is an non-iterable implementation of a set that stores its content directly on the trie. It's like LookupMap, but it only stores whether the value presents. Usage:

```js
import {LookupSet} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.s = new LookupSet('prefix_b')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.s = Object.assign(new LookupSet, this.s)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.s.set('abc')
    this.s.set('def')
    this.s.set('ghi')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.s.extend(['xyz', '123'])

    // check exist
    let exist = this.s.contains('abc')

    // remove
    this.s.remove('def')
}
```

#### UnorderedMap

UnorderedMap is an iterable implementation of a map that stores its content directly on the trie. Usage:

```js
import {UnorderedMap} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.m = new UnorderedMap('prefix_c')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.m.keys = Object.assign(new Vector, this.m.keys)
    this.m.values = Object.assign(new Vector, this.m.values)
    this.m = Object.assign(new UnorderedMap, this.m)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.m.set('abc', 'aaa')
    this.m.set('def', 'bbb')
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ccc')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.m.extend([['xyz', '123'], ['key2', 'value2']])

    // get
    let value = this.m.get('abc')

    // remove
    this.m.remove('def')

    // replace
    this.m.set('ghi', 'ddd')

    // len, isEmpty
    let len = this.m.length
    let isEmpty = this.m.isEmpty()

    // iterate
    for (let [k, v] of this.m) {
        near.log(k+v)
    }

    // toArray, convert to JavaScript Array
    let a = this.m.toArray()

    // clear
    this.m.clear()
}
```

#### UnorderedSet

UnorderedSet is an iterable implementation of a set that stores its content directly on the trie. It's like UnorderedMap but it only stores whether the value presents. Usage:

```js
import {UnorderedSet} from 'near-sdk-js'

// in contract class constructor:
constructor() {
    super()
    this.s = new UnorderedSet('prefix_d')
}

// Override the deserializer to load vector from chain
deserialize() {
    super.deserialize()
    this.s.elements = Object.assign(new Vector, this.s.elements)
    this.s = Object.assign(new UnorderedSet, this.s)
}

someMethod() {
    // insert
    this.s.set('abc')
    this.s.set('def')
    this.s.set('ghi')

    // batch insert, extend:
    this.s.extend(['xyz', '123'])

    // check exist
    let exist = this.s.contains('abc')

    // remove
    this.s.remove('def')

    // len, isEmpty
    let len = this.s.length
    let isEmpty = this.s.isEmpty()

    // iterate
    for (let e of this.s) {
        near.log(e)
    }

    // toArray, convert to JavaScript Array
    let a = this.s.toArray()

    // clear
    this.s.clear()
}
```

### Highlevel Promise APIs

Within a contract class that decorated by `@Nearbindgen`, you can work a high level JavaScript class, called `NearPromise`. It's equivalently expressive as promise batch APIs but much shorter to write and can be chained like a JavaScript Promise.

In a `@call` method, you can return either a JavaScript value or a `NearPromise` object. In the later case, `@NearBindgen` will automatically `promiseReturn` it for you.

Usage:

```js
// create new promise
import { NearPromise, near, includeBytes } from "near-sdk-js";
import { PublicKey } from "near-sdk-js/lib/types";

let promise = NearPromise.new("account-to-run-promise");

// possible promise actions, choose and chain what you need:
promise
  .createAccount()
  .transfer(1_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000_000n)
  .addFullAccessKey(new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()))
  .addAccessKey(
    new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()),
    250000000000000000000000n, // allowance
    "receiver_account_id",
    "allowed_function_names"
  )
  .stake(100000000000000000000000000000n, new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()))
  .deployContract(includeBytes("path/to/contract.wasm"))
  .functionCall(
    "callee_contract_account_id",
    inputArgs,
    0, // amount
    2 * Math.pow(10, 13) // gas
  )
  .functionCallWeight(
    "callee_contract_account_id",
    inputArgs,
    0, // amount
    2 * Math.pow(10, 13), // gas
    1 // weight
  )
  .deleteKey(new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk()))
  .deleteAccount("beneficial_account_id");

return promise;
```

In the case of deploy contract, `includeBytes` is a helpful build-time util. You can include the content of a wasm contract, by using `includeBytes('path/to/contract.wasm')`.

In the case of `addFullAccessKey`, `addAccessKey` and `stake`, it takes a `PublicKey` object, you can find more details about it in the Types sections below.

Besides above APIs to build something on top of an API, you can also chain promises with `.then` and `.and`, they're equivalent to promiseThen, promiseAnd:

```js
// assume promise, promise2 and promise3 are create with above APIs, with several actions added like above.
promise.and(promise2).then(promise3); // promiseAnd of [promise_id, promise2_id], then promiseThen(promise_and_id, promise3_id)

return promise;
```

### Types

NEAR-SDK-JS also includes type defintions that are equivalent to that in Rust SDK / nearcore. You can browse them in near-sdk-js/src/types. Most of them are just type alias to Bytes and bigint.

#### Public Key

Public Key is representing a NEAR account's public key in a JavaScript class. You can either initiate a Public Key from binary data, or from a human readable string.

The binary data is in the same format as nearcore, but encoded in bytes. That's one byte to represent the curve type of the public key, either ed25519 (`\x00`), or secp256k1 ('\x01'), follows by the curve-specific public key data in bytes. Examples:

```js
new PublicKey(near.signerAccountPk());
new PublicKey(
  "\x00\xeb\x7f\x5f\x11\xd1\x08\x1f\xe0\xd2\x24\xc5\x67\x36\x21\xad\xcb\x97\xd5\x13\xff\xa8\x5e\x55\xbc\x2b\x74\x4f\x0d\xb1\xe9\xf8\x1f"
);
new PublicKey(
  "\x01\xf2\x56\xc6\xe6\xc8\x0b\x21\x3f\x2a\xa0\xb0\x17\x44\x23\x5d\x51\x5c\x59\x44\x35\xbe\x65\x1b\x15\x88\x3a\x10\xdd\x47\x2f\xa6\x46\xce\x62\xea\xf3\x67\x0d\xc5\xcb\x91\x00\xa0\xca\x2a\x55\xb2\xc1\x47\xc1\xe9\xa3\x8c\xe4\x28\x87\x8e\x7d\x46\xe1\xfb\x71\x4a\x99"
);
```

The human readable form is `ed25519:` or `secp256k1:` following base58-encoded public key. And initialize the Public Key with `PublicKey.fromString`:

```js
PublicKey.fromString('ed25519:DXkVZkHd7WUUejCK7i74uAoZWy1w9AZqshhTHxhmqHuB`)
PublicKey.fromString('secp256k1:5r22SrjrDvgY3wdQsnjgxkeAbU1VcM71FYvALEQWihjM3Xk4Be1CpETTqFccChQr4iJwDroSDVmgaWZv2AcXvYeL`)
```

Once a PublicKey object is created, it can be used in high level promise APIs that takes a public key, such as `addFullAccessKey`, `addAccessKey` and `stake`.
